Document causes of automated reboots and MCO pause behavior in Console (#28440)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/troubleshooting-disabling-autoreboot-mco-console.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * support/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-operator-issues.adoc

[id="troubleshooting-disabling-autoreboot-mco-console_{context}"]
= Disabling Machine Config Operator from automatically rebooting by using the console

> To avoid unwanted disruptions from changes made by the Machine Config Operator (MCO), you can use the {product-title} web console to modify the machine config pool (MCP) to prevent automatic rebooting after the Operator makes changes to the machine config.

Reviewer: This should be changed to be the same as the cli doc

```suggestion
To avoid unwanted disruptions from changes made by the Machine Config Operator (MCO), you can modify the machine config pool (MCP) to prevent the MCO from making any changes to nodes in that pool. This prevents any reboots that would normally be part of the MCO update process. 
```

[NOTE]
====

> Pausing a machine config pool stops all system reboot processes and all configuration changes from being applied.

Reviewer: This also
```suggestion
Pausing a machine config pool stops all updates to your {op-system} nodes, including updates to the operating system, security, certificate, and any other updates related to the machine config. Pausing should be done for short periods of time only.
```

kind: MachineConfigPool
...

spec:

...
  paused: true <1>
----
<1> Update the `spec.paused` field to `true` to pause rebooting.

. To verify that the machine config pool is paused, return to the *Machine Config Pools* page.
+
On the *Machine Config Pools* page, the *Paused* column reports *True* for the MCP you modified.

. To unpause the autoreboot process, click *Compute* -> *Machine Config Pools*.

. On the *Machine Config Pools* page, click either *master* or *worker* depending upon which nodes you want to pause rebooting:

. On the *master* or *worker* page, click *YAML*.

. In the YAML field, update the `spec.paused` field to `false`.
+
.Sample `MachineConfigPool` object 
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
...

spec:

...
  paused: false <1>
----
<1> Update the `spec.paused` field to `false` to allow pausung.
+
[NOTE]
====
By unpausing a machine config pool, all paused changes are applied at reboot.
====

. To verify that the machine config pool is paused, return to the *Machine Config Pools* page.
+
On the *Machine Config Pools* page, the *Paused* column reports *False* for the MCP you modified.

> . To see if the machine config pool has pending changes, on the *Machine Config Pools* page, if *Updated* is *False* and *Updating* is *True*, there are pending changes. When *Updating* is *False*, there are no pending changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To see if the machine config pool has pending changes, on the *Machine Config Pools* page, if *Updated* is *False* and *Updating* is *True*, there are pending changes. When *Updated* is *True* and  *Updating* is *False*, there are no pending changes.
```

Author: @mike-nguyen Good catch here. At this point in the procedure, the MCP is unpaused. I assume, right after unpausing, if there were any pending changes, the MCO would start making he changes(?) If so, we can put something like:

_If the machine config pool is implementing any pending changes, the *Updated* column is *False* and the *Updating* column is *True*. When *UPDATED* is *True* and *UPDATING* is *False*, there are no further changes being made._

Reviewer: @mburke5678 after unpausing the MCO should start its reconciliation process and apply any changes it needs then reboot if required.  There is a new feature that does not require reboots when making changes to SSH keys and rotating kubelet certificates.

> If the machine config pool is implementing any pending changes, the Updated column is False and the Updating column is True. When UPDATED is True and UPDATING is False, there are no further changes being made.

I would prefer "If the machine config pool is **applying** any pending changes..." because it aligns closely with the verbs we use in commands.

= Disabling Machine Config Operator from automatically rebooting by using the console

To avoid unwanted disruptions from changes made by the Machine Config Operator (MCO), you can use the {product-title} web console to modify the machine config pool (MCP) to prevent the MCO from making any changes to nodes in that pool. This prevents any reboots that would normally be part of the MCO update process. 

[NOTE]
====
Pausing a machine config pool stops all updates to your {op-system} nodes, including updates to the operating system, security, certificate, and any other updates related to the machine config. Pausing should be done for short periods of time only.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

To pause or unpause automatic MCO update rebooting: 

* Pause the autoreboot process:

. Log into the {product-title} web console as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

. Click *Compute* -> *Machine Config Pools*.

. On the *Machine Config Pools* page, click either *master* or *worker* depending upon which nodes you want to pause rebooting.

. On the *master* or *worker* page, click *YAML*.

> . In the YAML field, update the `spec.paused` field to `true`.

Reviewer 2: `s/YAML field/*YAML* field/ `
(assuming it's a GUI item)

Author: @bobfuru The field has no title. It's a pane, which looks like a console. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25209155/112520362-b5738600-8d71-11eb-85ec-58bea82d20c5.png)

+

> .Sample `MachineConfigPool` object 

Reviewer 2: We decided not to use backticks in [headings](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/master/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#assemblymodule-titles-and-section-headings).

Author: @bobfuru Thank you. I wasn't sure if these were considered headings.

Reviewer 2: Me either! Wonder if we should make this more clear in the guidelines?

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool

> ...

Reviewer 2: The preview build renders an odd underline beneath the ellipsis. Maybe that's intentional or known and I'm just not aware.

spec:

...
  paused: true <1>
----
<1> Update the `spec.paused` field to `true` to pause rebooting.

. To verify that the machine config pool is paused, return to the *Machine Config Pools* page.
+
On the *Machine Config Pools* page, the *Paused* column reports *True* for the MCP you modified.
+

> If the machine config pool has pending changes while paused, the *Updated* column is *False* and *Updating* is *False*. When *UPDATED* is *True* and *UPDATING* is *False*, there are no pending changes.

Reviewer 2: - `s/the *Updated* column is *False* and *Updating* is *False*./the *Updated* and *Updating* columns are *False*.`
- Also, not sure if the console uses uppercase or lower but I'd make each of these values the same style to be consistent.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> If there are pending changes (*UPDATED=False* and *UPDATING=False*), it is recommended to schedule a maintenance window for a reboot as early as possible, using the following steps, so that the queued changes since last reboot can take effect.

Reviewer 2: Does the parenthetical mean both are false specifically, or is that but one example? I could read it two ways:

- If there are pending changes, such as when both **UPDATED** and **UPDATING** are **False**, 
- If there are pending changes, where both **UPDATED** and **UPDATING** are **False**,

Reviewer 2: This sentence is pretty long, so I'd suggest breaking it after "as possible".
And for "using the following steps" - can you be more specific here? Maybe something like, "Use the following steps for unpausing autoreboot to apply the changes that were queued since the last reboot."

====

* Unpause the autoreboot process: 

> . Log into the {product-title} web console as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

Reviewer 2: s/into/in to

. Click *Compute* -> *Machine Config Pools*.

> . On the *Machine Config Pools* page, click either *master* or *worker* depending upon which nodes you want to unpause rebooting.

Reviewer 2: See previous comment in the pause step.

. On the *master* or *worker* page, click *YAML*.

> . In the YAML field, update the `spec.paused` field to `false`.

Reviewer 2: See previous comment in the pause step.

Author: the field has not title

+

> .Sample `MachineConfigPool` object 

Reviewer 2: See previous comment in the pause step.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfigPool
...

spec:

...
  paused: false <1>
----
<1> Update the `spec.paused` field to `false` to allow rebooting.
+
[NOTE]
====

> By unpausing a machine config pool, all the MCO applies all paused changes reboots {op-system-first} as needed.

Reviewer 2: See previous comment in the pause step.

====

. To verify that the machine config pool is paused, return to the *Machine Config Pools* page.
+
On the *Machine Config Pools* page, the *Paused* column reports *False* for the MCP you modified.
+

> If the machine config pool is applying any pending changes, the *Updated* column is *False* and the *Updating* column is *True*. When *UPDATED* is *True* and *UPDATING* is *False*, there are no further changes being made.

Reviewer 2: Similar to previous comment in the pause step.
